CPS393 LAB 02: 
   grep, globs, shell programs

1. What is an ls command that will list all entries (files or directories) that 
   start with an 'a' or 'b' or 'c' or 'd'. Create some files and/or directories
   to test your ls command.

2. What is an ls command that will list all entries (files or directories) that 
   end in 't' or 'a'.  Create some files and/or directories to test your ls 
   command.


3. Move into your home directory and verify you're there.

   From within your home directory, use the ls command to get a long listing for 
   u1.txt and u2.txt from the directory /usr/courses/cps393/dwoit/courseNotes/
   Specify u1.txt using an ABSOLUTE path name. 
   Specify u2.txt using a  RELATIVE path name. 
   Use the mouse to copy and paste the actual ls command you used into file lab02q03:
      -"select" whole ls command with the mouse so it's hilighted (which is "copy" in putty). 
      -vim lab02q3
      -open a new line: o
      -right-click mouse (which is "paste" in putty)
      -press escape a couple of times
      -:wq to save and exit

   Use vim to edit lab02q03 again and add the following at the top to turn it into a 
   shell program:
#!/bin/bash
  
   Run your program and make sure it works.


4. Use output redirection (the ">") to capture the OUTPUT from your ls command from
   question 3, and put it into file lab02q04

5. Copy the whole directory  /usr/courses/cps393/dwoit/labs/lab02/testfiles into your
   own filespace UNDER your lab02 dir. 


6.  Write a shell program named lab02q06 as follows.
    The shell program uses glob constructs and ls to list all entries that have 
    2 or more dots "." in their name. 
     If you run your program from within your testfiles directory, it should list 
     these files (in any order):
     a.b.c  a.b.c.d  a.bbb.c

7.  Write a shell program named lab02q07 as follows.
    The shell program uses glob constructs to list all files ending in the string ".txt"
    If you run your program from within your testfiles directory, it should list files:
    u894g.txt  xyz.txt
   
8.  Write a shell program named lab02q08 as follows.
    The shell program uses grep to find all lines of all files that contain the string 
    "winter" with letters in any case (e.g., winter, or wiNTer, etc).
    If you run your program from within your testfiles directory, it should show: 
    abcdtxt: lfj; ak winter alksdjf 
    try1.aaa:The Wintertime lab
    u894g.txt: lfj; ak winter alksdjf 
    xyz:The WINTER lab

9.  Copy your lab02q08 to file lab02q09 and change lab02q09 so that instead of
    searching for the string "winter" in any case, it searches for a string
    given on the command line (in any case). For example, running the following
    should produce the same output as q8 above:
    ./lab02q9 winTER

